All right.
Welcome to the course.
So in this video I'm just going to walk through the curriculum basically walk through every single thing
that we cover in this course.
It's pretty massive.
So I couldn't actually cover it all.
In the initial promo video this is the more detailed walkthrough and I'll be honest I started trying
to make a chart graphic that I could show some sort of timeline.
And I got feedback that it was just too ugly too long too hard to read the small text.
So then I tried to shifted over and I made this and it still is not very intuitive or helpful but it's
the only way I could put all of the sections of the content we cover on one single page or one graphic.
But personally not really a fan of that either.
So what I've done is just made slides to showcase the curriculum to walk through it.
OK.
So let's get going.
We start off with C Ss So we talk about C Ss animations we cover transforms transitions.
We make an animated image gallery that has this really beautiful hover effect.
We talk about keyframe animations and then we build a floating icon project a really common use case
for animations is to build loading icons.
Then from there we go into fluxbox.
So if you're not familiar with fluxbox it's a newer part of the SS that allows you to build layouts
to divvy up space much easier than it used to be.
So we learn all the basic properties there's a lot of properties to talk about.
Then we build a responsive nav bar we build a little advertising widget from a video game Web site and
then we build what's called the Holy Grail layout which is a standard player that used to be a lot harder
to build.
But now with flex Xbox it's pretty easy.
Then from there we take a break to build a special project.
So you build a complete company web site for a fictitious mountain guide company and we combine fluxbox
and some animations we talk about lay out make it responsive make it beautiful.
So in this section we don't necessarily learn any new content we just build something real next.
We're now moving on to Asynchronous JavaScript So this section covers the basics of things like promises
callbacks but it also dives into what's happening behind the scenes with javascript.
What it means when we talk about the event loop in the queue the stack in the heap.
Some of these technical terms and how they fit together.
So even if you're already familiar with things like callbacks and promises there's probably something
here for you to help you understand what's happening behind the scenes.
Then we dive into Ajax.
So Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and X M-L it's a terrible name but what it really is referring to is
making requests using javascript so that we can make single page apps.
So we talked about the granddaddy API.
The original one the SML HTP request which has not aged so gracefully.
So then we move on to the more modern way which is to use the fetch API as well as third party libraries
like ex-US and Jay query.
And along the way we make a couple of projects I've only listed two here a Bitcoin price checker.
So it gets live Bitcoin data using fetch and then also a random user generator where we're generating
fake users using an API as well.
And from there we move into testing which is sort of a notorious Tawfik.
It's usually not taught that much online actually but it's really important.
And in our case we focus on a testing library called jazzmen.
It's really commonly used.
So we talked about the syntax or Jasmine talk about how to write the tests but then we also focus on
overall structuring and the ideas behind different approaches to testing testing and development and
behavior driven development and what those cycles look like.
What it means as an individual what it means working on a team with testing kind of the pros and cons
of each.
And then we also get into more advanced topics like spies and clocks.
And we also learn how to test a synchronous code with jazzmen.
Then we have a section we're calling advanced array methods.
It's sort of like learning functional programming with javascript.
We're focusing on building our own clone of underscore a low or low dash.
You build methods from scratch.
Things like Map filter reduce every and some and a couple more.
The idea is that you're not learning some crazy new concepts there's no library or new technology.
It's just about being able to kind of take apart and rebuild a commonly used methods.
Now we get into kind of the thick of it with javascript.
We start talking about closures and the key word this two topic set for a lot of javascript beginners
are very intimidating.
And for a lot of instructors very intimidating to teach as well.
But really important intrinsic parts.
Yes.
So this section is really about mastering those two concepts closures and the key word this.
But there's also things like use strict.
We talked about call apply and bind.
We talked about the new keyword and we talked about implicit and explicit binding.
Then we continue on.
And we talked about object oriented programming with javascript which ties in nicely to the previous
section where now we're kind of taking it to the next level we talk about first of all what is object
oriented programming outside of javascript removed from the specific syntax just what is it.
Then we'd start diving into the syntax of javascript and its unique approach to O.P. talked about constructors
and prototypes.
The prototype chain prototype inheritance we build a couple of examples lots of exercises throughout
this.
And from there we go on and we switch gears entirely to talk about creating your own API.
So this is all about how do you make your own JS on API is that you can consume later to make a single
page application.
Up until this point we've been using other peoples or other companies API.
How do we make our own.
And we do that using Noad Mongo D-B and express.
We also talked about restful routing creating a full restful API so that we have full crud capabilities
using this API then we take that API and then we build our own single page app consuming our own API.
So we make an app in this section the single page app section where the entire section is devoted to
making a single app.
Actually we don't use a framework.
We do everything from scratch.
We use some Jey query but we're not using something like reacts or angular just yet we get to that stuff
later.
But here it's focused on understanding how a single page app works without the crutch of a framework.
So then we transition we go back to E.S. 2015.
So this is a big section actually you said it just put it up.
And in this first part I won't go over every single thing here.
So you can see those a lot of topics we cover but we talk about things like that in Konst arrow function.
So that's a big one.
Rest and spread operators we talk about object and array destructuring the class key word how inheritance
works.
The 2015 Super generator's is 2015 promises a lot of stuff a lot of exercises a lot of chances for you
to get your hands dirty with this stuff.
So it's not just lecturing.
It can be dry on its own but we've worked really hard to make it as interactive as possible and then
we have one of my favorite sections.
I think it's kind of unique.
We're calling it the guess the password refactor So I guess the password is an app that we've already
built but it doesn't use East 2015 features.
So in this section you're actually going to retrofit it refactor it to use some of those as 2015 features
like era functions.
The rest operator leten Konst and array destructuring.
So you take this app that's already been built for you said password guessing game and then we're going
to make it better.
Refactor it clean it up and make it more modern.
So I'm kind of proud about the section I'm really happy with how it turned out.
Then we go with East 2016 and 2017 which there's much less to cover compared to 2015.
So this is combined into one section.
We hit the big important pieces though things like includes async functions.
What we spend most of the time on object rests and spread.
PAD started pad and a couple of little tiny things here and there but compared to the massive amount
of changes that came with it is 2015 these two are pretty minor but still important especially async
functions.
And then there's another big shift in the curriculum.
We move on to D-3.
If you're not familiar with D-3 it's a jobs library that helps you make charts graphics helps you visualize
data.
So we start off with a couple of sections focusing around it.
But in this first one we focus on the basics.
How you actually use it to manipulate the Dom to do things that you're probably already comfortable
with.
Like creating event listeners selecting elements we have another opportunity to refactor an existing
app that we give you and then we have a project which we call the notes app.
So this isn't so much focused on creating data visualizations just yet or charts.
It's just learning D-3.
Then we move on to what we call the D-3 and data.
So this is where we start working with bigger data sets.
We talk about how D-3 works with data.
How do you import it.
What are the functions of the methods you need to do that.
And then we build a fun little project where we visualize the character frequencies in a string.
From there we move on to SVGA and D-3.
So SVGA stands for scalable vector graphics as Viji and D-3 play together very nicely.
So we learn how to draw on the screen using SPG how to create rectangles and circles and polygons how
do we add text in different lines and paths and arcs and then how do we use D-3 to actually generate
those and manipulate them so that eventually we'll be using SVGA to make pie charts or line graphs or
whatever it is.
And we have a project here as well where we re factor the previous character frequency up to now use
SVGA.
Then we really get into D-3 and the data visualization aspects where we start working with actual chart
types.
So we work with real data and we create scatterplot and histograms and pie charts.
We talked about how to create scales for our data how to create colors and define those colors based
off of the scales.
Really fun things.
So this one we create multiple charts as we go.
Then we move on to advanced D-3 where we get into some of the trickier things like how do you manage
a synchronous code with D-3 or how do you add tool tips so you can hover over your visualizations and
get more information and then a really fun thing and my opinion is we start working with maps.
So map visualizations are really important.
How do we work with map data and DOJ San Antonio Jason to create these map visualizations.
And finally we work with forced directed graphs we talk about how to create them using D-3.
A lot of stuff I know.
And if you're not familiar with D-3 this can sound like a whole lot of jibberish but it's really cool.
I advise you to check it out even if you're apprehensive about it even if you're not super comfortable
with you know math and numbers.
Still I think there's a lot to learn there.
And then finally we get to the pinnacle of the D-3 content which is this climate dashboard that we build.
So we take real world CO2 emissions data and we create this dashboard where there's a map.
We've got a pie chart.
We also have a bar chart and everything's interactive.
There's a slider so we can change the year and see how things change over time.
Basically it's a combination of all the D-3 content we've learned putting it all together to build dashboard
together.
Then we have one last big shift in our curriculum where we start talking about react.
So then the rest of this course is focused on react.
We start with the basics.
Talk about front and frameworks in general.
We learn about why react is popular why you should care about it.
Then you create your first component.
You work with GSX and we start rendering multiple components on the page.
Next we talk about create re-act app and props to create re-act app is a really cool tool that helps
you get started quickly.
Basically you don't have to fuss over all the very basics of getting an app created and getting started
so we can really dive into the code quickly and then we talk about props.
And by the end of the section you build you build your own recipe demo apps and nothing groundbreaking
but we're putting together pieces working with props and components and GSX to make something substantial.
Moving on we talked about state next state is a key concept to react so we have a section devoted to
it.
We talk about how it compares to prop's then we work with the re-act developer tools in the browser.
Learn some of the ins and outs of those.
Then we focus on re-act component architecture and along the way a bunch of re-act exercises.
Next up we talk about the virtual Dom and react events.
So one of the most intimidating concepts at least up front to a lot of students is the virtual Dom and
react and it sounds like some crazy sci fi thing.
It's not that crazy.
So we talked about it in this section.
He'll work with the virtual Dom.
You'll learn how to handle events using re-act you create forms to react.
And of course build a couple of apps.
Next up we talk about the component lifecycle so key concept and react is what's called the re-act component
lifecycle and there's a bunch of associated methods that we get for free with re-act that we can hook
into at certain points.
And the main thing that we do here is talk about making AJAX calls loading data asynchronously using
a method called component did mount and we build a fun little geography app where we make an AJAX call
to load data.
After that we get to a big section that's focused on react and authentication.
So this is tricky in a lot of Riak course is skip over this.
But we decided not to.
So we start off by talking about the key concepts behind authentication things like JCA on the web tokens
caching cookies.
And then we also implement Auth. on your own node server using a library called B crypt.
We focus on the differences between authentication and authorization.
And then finally we learn how to hook re-act into off.
And it's kind of tricky and there's a lot of concepts a lot of moving parts.
But by the end we'll have a start on our main re-act project that we call warbler.
It's sort of a take on Twitter.
I hope I'm allowed to say Twitter don't sue me.
So that's what we do here we start the Auth. start the back end.
So by the end we'll have people be able to or users to be able to sign up and sign and from there we
move on to the re-act router.
So we start by identifying problems with react when we don't use to react rather what are problems with
using a front end framework to manage everything for us on the client side.
And then we talked about the role that re-act router plays and how it solves those problems we see how
added to your projects.
We also focus on managing authentication with it and then we basically added in to our warbler project
the Twitter.
And then we get to redux.
And this is kind of weird to explain especially to people who haven't started react but essentially
redux is a way of structuring applications or flex as a way of structuring applications and reductions
in implementation that we're going to use.
But we really focus in this section on a conceptual overview of what the heck it is.
What is redux.
We talk about how to work with a library called re-act reduction your own projects.
And then we talked about all the key concepts like actions reducers pure functions.
We work with the redux developer tools so there are specific tools we can use.
We use middleware called redux thunk.
It's another little library.
And then we we switch up our application and we take warbler and refactor it using reduction.
So this is the last big thing we do and react and it's a big thing it is.
It's a whole new way of thinking about applications.
But I think it's pretty fun especially if you're used to building applications one way this kind of
flips it all on its head and that's it.
Take a deep breath and know it's a lot of content.
This course covers a ton of stuff in scope but also goes really foreign to death and the things the
content alone or the D-3 content could easily be standalone courses or you know five to 10 hours each.
So it's a lot of content.
Next up what we're going to do if you're curious I'm going to highlight some of the learning paths you
can take through the course.
So if you're only focused on react I'll tell you what section to need to do.
If you're only focused on D-3 or you want to become a 2015 ninja I'll help you identify what's important
and what you can maybe skip or come back to later.
All right.
M8.